# Room_basic_project
Learning how to use Room
Notes

Intergation

- adding dependencies in app gradle file
- applying kapt plugin
- using kapt for annotation processor in Kotlin
- making sure that we include jcenter and google repositories int he top level gradle file

Creation of the database

- Create an abstract class that will extend RoomDatabase class
- Specify the version number. Everytime changing the database, change the number of the version. 
Otherwise will get runtime exception.
- Define the entities, after defining the version
- Make sure the database is a singletone instance
- When creating the database we shuld use application context
- Create a property of the database and get its instance in the onCreate method of MainActivity
- In order to compile the app we need to add at least one entity.

Defining an entity

- An entity is something you want to store in the database
- We define the entity in the code level
- Room handles the creation of SQLite tables for each entity
- We need to add @Entity annotation to make a class (or data class in Kotlin) an Entity
- If there is an Id property it can make sense to make it as a @PrimaryKey that can be unique for each object tha will be stored in the database
- @PrimeryKey can be set to be autogenerated = true. In this case it should be var in Kotlin and not val, and hold the type of Int or Long
- Val should be changed to var because Room needs to generate and work with setters.
- Register the entity in the DataBase file

Customising the names of tables and columns

- Room will create the table name as specified in the Entity class name.
- After building the project the Room generates the file with the Databasename_Impl.
- There we can see the tables that the Room created
- To customise the table name, specify the name in the brackets at @Entity(tableName = "CustomTableName")
- Column names can be also customised by adding @ColumnInfo(name = "someName") to the properties of the Entity class





